How to retire an EC2 instance - OHSH-493 (#271)
OHS-Hosting-Infrastructure/infrastructure: docs/runbooks/retiring-an-instance.md

## **BEFORE MOVING FORWARD**

You are here because the EC2 instance in question is being retired. That might be because you suspect it's no longer in use, or you're spinning up a new one to correct the mistakes of the old one, or the hardware it lives on is being shutdown. **No matter the reason, reach out to any teams/users that you suspect would possibly be using the instance before doing anything else.** This'll inform how you should, or shouldn't, move forward, as well as give any affected parties the time to grieve.

## Steps to Retiring

1. Breathe, you'll get through this.
1. Check the metrics of the instance on AWS console for any indications of life. It's best to compare to an instance that you're sure is still in use.
1. Use the IP address of the retiring instance to search the logs of any other instances, that may interact with this one to ensure it's not in active use. i.e. grep-ing through logs on the associated server itself, looking through Cloudfront logs, etc.

> 1. Make a note of any resources that may be associated with and are **not used** by the retiring instance. i.e. security groups, volumes, subnets, AMIs, snapshots, etc.

Author: made a change that should make this more readable. let me know what you think!

> 1. Make a note of any resources that may be associated with and are **not used** by the retiring instance. i.e. security groups, volumes, subnets, AMIs, snapshots, etc.

Reviewer: looks good to me, thanks!

1. If there are associated resources that are not specific to the retiring instance but have components that are, make note of those components (i.e. a security group used for a bunch of instances that has a rule specific to your retiring instance).
1. Check that the instance is not a part of an autoscaling group. If it is and you delete it, it will just pop back up.

> 1. Check to see if there are any snapshots being taken of the attached volume. If so be sure to archive the most recent snapshot. You'll cherish those memories later.

Reviewer: is there any documentation on archiving snapshots that we could link to - or if it's a fairly intuitive process we don't have to, I'm just not familiar!

Author: gonna hold off on this part for now to get clarification on this step

> 1. Find and take note of any relevant bits of terraform if any exist.

Reviewer: maybe we can specify that if terraform exists it would be in the environment configuration repo?

## Steps to Retiring

1. Breathe, you'll get through this.
1. Once again, get in touch with any teams/users that may be affected by the retirement. And be sure to work in coordination with them.
1. Check the metrics of the instance on AWS console for any indications of life. It's best to compare to an instance that you're sure is still in use.
1. Use the IP address of the retiring instance to search the logs of any other instances, that may interact with this one to ensure it's not in active use. i.e. grep-ing through logs on the associated server itself, looking through Cloudfront logs, etc.
1. Make a note of any resources that may be associated with the retiring instance. i.e. security groups, volumes, subnets, AMIs, snapshots, etc.
1. If there are associated resources that are not specific to the retiring instance but have components that are, make note of those components (i.e. a security group used for a bunch of instances that has a rule specific to your retiring instance).
1. Check that the instance is not a part of an autoscaling group. If it is and you delete it, it will just pop back up.

> 1. Check to see if there are any snapshots being taken of the attached volume. If so be sure to archive the last year's worth of snapshots, deleting anything older than that. You'll cherish those memories later.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Check to see if there are any snapshots being taken of the attached volume. If so, archive the last year's worth of snapshots. Cron should be deleting anything older than that. You'll cherish those memories later.
```
